Wire: Press Trust of India (PTI)
Date: Mar 6 2020  9:30:12
Global markets extend slump as coronavirus crisis deepens


 (PTI) -- Stock markets collapsed Friday and oil tumbled on 
heightened panic over coronavirus and its predicted devastating 
damage to global economic growth, dealers said.
      Haven investments gold and the yen surged as the World 
Health Organisation (WHO) warned that the epidemic must be taken 
seriously.
     In midday deals, the Paris stock market tanked 4.1 percent, 
Frankfurt dived 3.9 percent, London shed 3.4 percent, Madrid 
lost 3.6 percent and Milan tumbled 3.8 percent in a fierce 
global markets selloff that began about two weeks ago.
     With no end in sight to the spreading COVID-19 disease, 
Tokyo stocks shipped 2.7 percent by the close, Shanghai fell 1.2 
percent and Hong Kong erased 2.3 percent on heightened investor 
panic.
     Oil, already slumping on virus-linked demand fears, 
extended losses to more than 5.0 percent on reports Russia wants 
to delay deeper output cuts recommended by its OPEC allies.
     "Stocks are on the back foot once again, with markets 
tumbling amid continued growth in the coronavirus crisis," said 
analyst Joshua Mahony at IG trading group.
     "The stimulus-led rebound in global stocks has been short-
lived, with fears over an escalation of the coronavirus crisis 
providing yet another bout of selling across European markets." 
While governments and central banks have unleashed or prepared 
to roll out stimulus measures, the rapid spread of the disease 
and rising death toll are putting a strain on economies and 
stoking concerns of a worldwide recession.
     The US Federal Reserve sprang a surprise half-point 
interest rate cut on Tuesday in an attempt to stem devastating 
fallout.
     But as coronavirus continues its rapid spread -- almost 
100,000 people in 85 countries have now been infected -- 
investors are fleeing risk assets such as stocks for financial 
havens.
     "With the economic impact of coronavirus large and rising, 
policymakers in advanced economies are being forced to react," 
said economist Adam Slater at research group Oxford Economics.
     "But conventional monetary and fiscal options like the US 
Federal Reserve's recent emergency rate cut, may not be enough." 
 WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, meanwhile, warned that 
"this is not a drill" as outbreaks surged in Europe and the 
United States, where medical workers warned over a "disturbing" 
lack of hospital preparedness.
     With dealers flocking to safety and yields on US Treasuries 
at record lows, gold has rocketed  more than five percent this 
week to sit at more than seven-year highs.
     In oil markets, Brent North Sea crude dived to $47.02 per 
barrel, the lowest levels since July 2017. WTI tumbled to $43.28 
-- the lowest since late 2018.
     "Over the past month, forecasters have slashed their oil 
price estimates quicker than you can say 'pass the hand 
sanitiser'," said PVM analyst Stephen Brennock.
     "In short, COVID-19 is in the midst of an international 
offensive and the worst effects are yet to be felt. Global oil 
demand destruction is therefore poised to intensify." News that 
OPEC ministers had recommended a huge production cut of 1.5 
million barrels a day to offset the impact of the virus was 
unable to provide traders with any lift.
     There are concerns over whether key producers outside the 
group -- Russia in particular -- will follow the advice. World 
oil prices have wiped out more than a fifth of their value so 
far in 2020. - Key figures around 1130 GMT - 
=============================== London - FTSE 100: DOWN 3.1 
percent at 6,496.36 points Frankfurt - DAX 30: DOWN 3.5 percent 
at 11,531.90 Paris - CAC 40: DOWN 3.5 percent at 5,172.44 Milan -
 FTSE MIB: DOWN 3.3 percent at 20,834.22 EURO STOXX 50: DOWN 3.4 
percent at 3,249.36 Tokyo - Nikkei 225: DOWN 2.7 percent at 
20,749.75 (close) Hong Kong - Hang Seng: DOWN 2.3 percent at 
26,146.67 (close) Shanghai - Composite: DOWN 1.2 percent at 
3,034.51 (close) New York - Dow: DOWN 3.6 percent at 26,121.28 
(close) Dollar/yen: DOWN at 105.29 yen from 106.16 yen at 2200 
GMT Euro/dollar: UP at $1.1326 from $1.1237 Pound/dollar: UP at 
$1.3016 from $1.2954 Euro/pound: DOWN at 87.01 pence from 86.75 
pence Brent Crude: DOWN 4.3 percent at $47.88 per barrel West 
Texas Intermediate: DOWN 3.1 percent at $44.47 burs-rfj/bcp/bsp 
(AFP)  
 PMS PMS 03061959

-0- Mar/06/2020 14:30 GMT

-----------------------------====================------------------------------
                              Copyright (c) 2023

################################ END OF STORY 1 ##############################

